Good morning.
Today the Word of God comes from the book of Ephesians chapter 4 verses 11 through 14.
In the Brown Bible it's 1158.
Let's listen to the Word.
It was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers to prepare God's people for works of service.
that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.
Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves and blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning
and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming.
Amen.
Joe Sun, is that a Chinese word?
That's about all I know.
That and...
I'll go out to my... No, no, I'm just fine.
That's about it.
Good to see everybody.
Get organized here.
Let's see.
Do I need this mic on?
This is not good?
Sounds like they're both on.
All right.
Good to see old and familiar faces again.
Thank you for the great time of worship.
Wonderful.
time of praising God.
Wow, it's been a little while since I've been here and been back to see you guys again.
You know, I wear a lot of hats.
For those of you that don't know me, my name is Curtis.
I've been a pastor at one time, like 13 years ago at the First Baptist Church in Elk Grove.
I currently am a physical therapist at the UC Davis Med Center.
I wear a lot of hats.
I teach, I have a martial arts school where I teach self defense.
So I guess a coach is kind of a good term to describe a lot of what I do.
Like I said, today, I guess I'm your spiritual fitness coach.
And that's kind of what I entitled the message today, spiritual fitness, spiritual maturity.
So like any good coach,
You know, a coach can't make a good athlete, right?
It's kind of like a 50-50 relationship, but a good coach can spur athlete onto success by showing them the right training method and to reach their goals.
So that's hopefully what I want to accomplish today.
So what, let's start out kind of, what are some of the markers of health?
Can anybody tell me what, do you know what your BMI stands for?
This excludes any doctors in the house.
Okay.
Body mass index.
Yeah, exactly.
How about your HDLs?
Anybody know what that stands for?
Yeah, measure of cholesterol levels.
Your high density lipoproteins, I believe.
So you want those
not as high as your LDLs, right?
You don't want to elevate it LDLs, which is a measure of your cholesterol or, I'm not sure if it's exactly, you could ask the doctors in the house what that actually means, but it's your love, blood, lipids, right?
Your fats.
How about your A1C levels?
What is that a measure of?
Your blood sugars, right, exactly.
So as a physical therapist,
We often look at kind of three things like a three-legged stool, strength, flexibility, and endurance.
So those are the kind of things I look for as far as physical health.
And the fourth one is, I like to throw in there is ergonomics, kind of how our bodies function to our environment and our work, recreation, or sport.
So if one of these legs are kind of off kilter, there's a chance of injury.
For instance, I had a friend who ruptured his Achilles tendon on his first day of playing pickleball.
Okay, right?
He's like over 50 and his first day of this, bam, ruptures his Achilles tendon.
So I don't know, pickleball, did anybody know about pickleball?
I guess it's kind of exciting.
Just the name, I don't know.
Pickleball?
Kind of like curling, right?
Curling over this.
Winter Olympics.
You just don't get too excited about, I think I watched Curling today.
But you know what, I got to give it to the US national team, right?
If they wanted to promote their sport, I think they did it in the best way possible.
Congratulations to them for winning the gold medal at the Winter Olympics.
I kind of got into it a little bit.
I couldn't really relate to it before, you know, all the shuffling or I don't know like that stuff.
It looks kind of goofy, but it's kind of like marbles, right?
They got that circle and you're trying to knock the other guy out.
And sometimes they get a double thing, but you're like 50 feet away.
So it was kind of cool.
I had given that.
Good job.
So today we're going to talk about spiritual fitness, spiritual fitness.
And we're going to look at the signs of
spiritual fitness or maturity and we're going to look to the apostle Paul in his letter to the church at Ephesus which was a Roman colony at the time.
So in chapters 4 through 6 the apostle Paul writes so clearly about spiritual maturity and as we read in chapter 4 verse 1 through 14
Oh yeah, I don't have to read that.
You guys read it already.
Thank you.
So I really labored.
I speak periodically.
Kind of strange that I do a lot of memorial services in Sacramento, but periodically fill in for the pulpit.
And it truly is a labor of love for me.
And I do labor.
If I don't have diagnosed, confirmed,
ADD, I think I have it when I prepare messages.
So my son asked me how Sirmah's preparation was going, and I said, well, it's kind of like broccoli.
I kind of go in this direction, and the scripture is so good, I got a three point outline here, and there, and there, and there.
And I really struggled, many hours, many days, to try to really see what the Word of God
wanted to share with you today.
I really struggled with that and I trust that God's Spirit will speak today.
So I encourage you to take notes and refer back to your notes at a later date because there's just so much here.
There's so much here in Ephesians 4 through 6.
Like your handout today is like the whole head of broccoli I gave you.
It's like an overview of chapters 4 to 6.
And it talks about spiritual maturity, putting off the old self and putting on the new self.
And there are some 50 some odd points of application that we're gonna go through everyone today.
No, I'm just kidding, we're not gonna go through everyone.
We're actually gonna go, I was gonna say, if anyone, I used to complain to God that, it felt like sometimes that God is so silent, right?
Sometimes it's hard to understand the Bible.
I just don't know how to live my life.
But here is a letter, as I was studying Ephesians.
Here's a letter written by the apostle Paul.
And I witnessed to Jesus, the Son of God, written 60 years after Jesus' crucifixion.
And it's addressed to who?
Most likely the church of Ephesus
Roman Providence, and it was most likely a Gentile church.
Any Gentiles in the audience here today?
Yeah, that would be everybody.
Yeah, yeah, that would be all of us unless you're fully, fully Jewish.
Okay.
So all of us are Gentiles.
So, and really this letter could be written from the Apostle Paul to the Chinese church in Sacramento.
Okay.
So it is, there's so much there and it's so clear and it's written for you today.
It's like when someone says, you know, Pastor Lewis, that message you gave last week, you know, I felt you were like just speaking, speaking straight to me.
I really felt that.
But really this whole book is written to you.
It's written to us today.
So I've prepared an outline and overview for you.
And I'd encourage you to refer back to it later.
So we are going to not talk about the whole chapters four through six, not the whole head of broccoli, but actually the stem.
Okay.
And it's this first beginning verse here by the apostle Paul.
And he says, as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received.
And that actually is going to be my three point outline right there.
Okay, so if you want to write anything down, just write worthy, calling, and received.
We're going to cover those three points there.
I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received.
This is the preface to everything that follows in chapter four and then through six.
This is the preface.
And I really struggled because I'm only here one time and so I was really struggling which
branch of the broccoli I was going to talk about, okay?
So I'm going to focus on this and I'm going to draw three points from this.
So number one, he says, I urge you to live a life worthy.
It also says later in the book, don't grieve, do not grieve the Holy Spirit.
And there's a theme in your outline of putting off the old self and putting on the new.
So if you refer to your outline briefly on the
left-hand side, left-hand column is putting it on the new self.
And on the right-hand column is taking off the old self.
The old self of greed, indulgence, ignorance, deceitful desires, lies, uncontrolled anger, unwholesome talk, bitterness, rage, slander, brawling, malice, immorality, impurity, greed, obscenity,
And some of these very practical things, foolish talk, coarse joking, uncontrolled anger.
And on the left side, I'll just highlight a few, number 15, forgiving.
Actually, let's go to 22.
Find what pleases the Lord.
It really reminds me of seek.
a famous verse, seek and you will find.
Or, in Deuteronomy, for Jeremiah 29, one of my favorite verses, seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart.
And it reminds us of these words, seeking and finding.
Hopefully it's not hide and seek.
Hopefully that's not our faith of searching around for God, this mysterious being, but
It hearkens to the apostle Matthew in chapter seven of Matthew where he says, ask and it will be given to you.
Seek and you will find.
Knock and the door shall be open to you.
For everyone who asks receives.
For everyone who seeks finds and the one who knocks the door will be opened.
You know, there's so much there.
You know, I digress a little bit.
We got to get back to the broccoli stem.
Okay, so if you ask anybody, what did Patrick Herzog talk about this weekend?
He talked about broccoli.
Okay, all right, he talked about broccoli.
So moving on, let's see, 23, I love this, 23.
Make the most out of every opportunity.
There's a sense of urgency that I love that the Apostle Paul is talking about.
make the most of every opportunity.
And then up to, let's see, continuing on, be wise and learn the Lord's will.
Be filled with the Holy Spirit and not drunk with wine, leading to derogatory.
So basically in a nutshell, summarizing the broccoli, the whole thing, putting it off the old self, and then putting on the new self is basically
living being filled with the Holy Spirit and living in the Spirit.
And then finally I want to highlight 15 and 16 that we will come back to again.
If I can find my 15.
There it is.
15 and 16 are kind of the summary passages there of things to put on besides being filled with the Spirit.
being filled with the Spirit powers everything, right?
But number 15, forgiving as Christ has forgiven us.
And 16, walk in sacrificial love as Christ has also loved us.
So that's an overview.
And then we're going to get back to these three points that I wanted to talk about.
I urge you to live a life worthy.
of the calling that we have received.
So how do we live a worthy life over a lifetime?
How do we do this?
It's kind of just like physical health, physical fitness.
And I believe it is this, making many daily intentional choices.
You read this list, and it's kind of overwhelming, isn't it?
It's kind of overwhelming.
Um, and how do we do this?
And it's, you know, Paul's saying live a life worthy.
It's just kind of general, right?
But I believe how to do this is this, making many daily intentional choices, putting off the old and putting on the new.
And these choices build habits and these habits start to build character and character builds a lifestyle and a lifestyle creates
a life worthy.
So many daily intentional choices.
So it's kind of like physical health.
A couple years ago, my physical markers were starting to elevate.
My LDLs, my HDLs, my blood cholesterol, my blood pressure, everything started creeping up my weight and everything.
And these two documentaries really helped change my thinking and started
nudging me and pushing me toward more healthy eating, more healthy lifestyle.
One of them was, I don't know if you've, raise your hand if you've seen the documentary on Netflix, Food Inc. Food Inc, a couple of you have, yeah.
And the second one, Forks Over Knives, yeah, a couple, Forks Over Knives, right?
It's ironic that
Forks Over Knife highlights the study that Dr. Colin Campbell did, and it's called the China study.
Kind of ironic that I'm going to talk about the China study in the Chinese church.
But basically he found that the poor rural Chinese diet created the greatest health in rural China.
But as they started getting richer more toward the city, they started eating more
animal-based proteins as opposed to the poor Chinese diet.
When I say the poor Chinese diet, 99% of you know what I mean by that, right?
Very little meat, a little bit of meat that flavors your dish, lots of vegetables and things like that.
You know, occasionally you eat meat on occasions, you rarely eat a big steak type of thing.
If you do eat beef, it's just kind of flavors your dish.
And this is the, it's one of the largest studies that they've done
all over the world with that many people and population in China that found that more plant-based proteins lead to more health and animal-based proteins.
So for me, it's making these daily intentional choices.
So when I started shopping, what I shopped for at the grocery store, what I stacked my refrigerator with, influences what I'm cooking during that week.
That influences my leftovers that I bring to work that week.
It's all these chain reaction of things that lead to greater health.
If you surround yourself with junk food, guess what you're going to be watching snacking on when you're watching Netflix?
It's junk food.
And there's a spiritual analogy here, of course.
If we fill our mind if we're feasting on junk food, it's the opposite of asking, seeking, knocking, finding the Lord's will.
What does scripture say?
Thy word I have hidden in my heart that I might not sin against thee, feeding on the word of God.
So what we feed on is going to influence our spiritual health.
How do we build a life worthy by making daily intentional choices, which develop habits, which develop character, which builds a life worthy of our calling.
So on to point two, our calling.
You know, what are we called to?
What are we called to?
I believe we are called to become children of God, called from darkness to light, called to be forgiven, called to relationship, being adopted.
We are called to be the branches in Christ who is the vine.
We are called to bear much fruit, right?
called like the rest of today's message, like your handout in Ephesians 4 through 6, called to put off the old self and called to put on the new self.
Like I said, there's 53 or more things that we are called to do.
But the preface to this, spiritual maturity, the apostle says, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received.
And so really this is the key that I want to
kind of focus the masses on here before we actually do we have to be before we do we have to be and I think that's quoted from Yoda I think it kind of sounds like Yoda isk I'm not gonna in my younger days I would do the impression but I'm not going to you you can hear the accent before you do you have to be right before you do you have to be so let's focus on the third point
of the broccoli stem, the preface to everything else.
The Apostle Paul says, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received.
So this is it.
I'd encourage you to circle that part, the calling that you receive, because I believe I'm convicted in preparation for this message that this is the secret.
This is the answer to living a lifetime worthy
of our calling.
It's the key to be successful to producing spiritual fruit or the whole list in Ephesians 4 through 6.
So let's deconstruct that sentence a little bit.
Let's go backwards a little bit.
To be successful at living a life worthy, we must first have received that calling, that calling to be a child of God, a calling to be born again, a calling to be adopted,
I truly believe if you're not connected to the vine of Christ, we will not be able to produce spiritual fruit.
If we, if not, we're just going to live our lives as carnal Christians.
But until we have truly received God's transforming spirit inside, like what occurred to the prodigal son, there will be no spiritual fruit, worldly fruit.
Maybe the type that is, is transactional.
Do you know what I mean by that?
It's the kind of fruit that we see, you know, if you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours, right?
There's, what do scriptures say, speak specifically to that in Luke, the apostle Luke six says, if you love those who love you, what credit is that to you?
Even sinners love those who love them.
Oh, that's so, so specific.
That's worldly fruit.
But the fruit we're talking about is the fruit of the Spirit.
Love.
Love doesn't translate, right?
We're talking about agape love.
Not anything that we're going to give in return, get in return, but agape love, unconditional love, joy, peace, patience, even in the midst of bad circumstances.
kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control.
So to summarize, I believe most people hear the gospel and many believe it, but few actually receive it in full.
And this is what I want to drive home today.
There are many who are religious, but few actually have received.
Few actually have received.
So this is the preface by what the Apostle Paul is powering the rest of Ephesians 4 through 6, the mature life, the spirit-filled life that the Apostle Paul is urging, insisting that we live.
So it is all predicated that we receive the calling of God to be sons and daughters.
So what does this look like?
Maybe you're following along here.
this three-point outline, we must receive the calling before we can live a life worthy.
But what does it look like?
Well, let's look at the apostle Paul who wrote this letter.
You know, he was called something totally different before he met Jesus, right?
What was his name?
Saul.
He had a total different persona, a totally different name.
He was typical of the religious leaders of that time.
He was
self-proclaimed, a Pharisee of Pharisees, right?
Perfect in every way.
Kind of similar to our Asian sensibilities, our cultural morals, being good morals, even a little bit self-righteous.
But I can best explain this by a parable that Jesus taught.
And it's about the trilogy
a parable of the lost coin, the lost sheep, and the lost son and daughters.
And so I'm going to elaborate on that on our calling that we need to receive.
And obviously that's what the apostle Paul received when he met Christ on that Damascus road.
So let's meditate on this a little bit.
The lost coin.
We're not going to go through it in detail, but in summary the lost coin
It's interesting that Jesus not only talks about the prodigal son, which we can relate to, he's a human being, but he also talks about a lost coin and a lost sheep.
What the kingdom of God is like when sinners come to know and receive God's blessing.
The lost coin, what is a coin?
It's lost through no fault of its own, possibly lost its value,
due to society, you know, those who I believe truly received, have received God's invitation, have rediscovered their value, their value, their worth in God's economy versus the world's.
That is what it means to truly have received our calling.
Let's talk about the lost sheep.
Have you ever, let's see, you raised chickens?
Chicken?
Any sheep?
No sheep.
Okay.
Anybody raised sheep here?
Anybody seen a sheep in its natural environment?
They're kind of dumb.
You know, they're kind of, they don't really look you in the eye.
And so it's interesting that Jesus uses a sheep as an analogy because they need shepherding.
They just wander.
And so sheep can wander maybe through, if we identify with that, maybe through ignorance, right?
Maybe to just worldly wrong choices going along with the flow, being lost far from home, safety.
Maybe we've lost our identity, lost our purpose, lost our meaning.
Maybe lost pursuing the American dream.
We live our life, our whole life, trying to find a life liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
a house, a dog, 2.5 kids, whatever.
And if you live in America, an SUV and a driveway, right?
Now, what does the writer of Ecclesiastes say about this, right?
All these pursuits.
Maybe we're lost because it's like a chasing after the wind.
We spent our whole life looking for happiness.
only to find that when we reach that mountain top, whatever it is for us, it's empty.
To know that God searches for us, that it's His will that all should be saved and brought home.
He searches to bring us home where there is belonging and meeting.
That is what I believe it means to be a truly received our calling.
Now let's close on the lost sons.
The lost sons through going off to that far off land either overtly, or covertly, or overtly like the younger son did, or covertly like the older son.
Either way, both were lost in this parable.
And they were challenged in the end to receive their sonship.
And the older son,
To the older son, the father pleads with him at the end of the story.
You know, there he is on the outside, refusing to come into the celebration and the banquet.
He's saying, you know, after all that I've done, whatever, you haven't even given me a goat or a chicken to celebrate with my friends, you know.
And what does the father say?
He pleads with him, son, you have always been with me.
Everything I have has been yours.
This older son had not received his true sonship.
And to the younger son, he knew he was lost, right?
He knew he was lost and he wanted to only come back, just take me back as a slave.
Just save me from my predicament.
And so, what did he get instead?
Did he get punishment?
Did he get just rewards?
Like, probably the older son wanted him to have, right?
A sense of justice, keeping tabs, no.
But he got grace.
He got forgiveness.
The father put a ring on his finger, sandals on his feet, and a robe on his back.
Those who don't know this unconditional love and grace, you know,
This is another head of the broccoli that I could go off on.
Um, there's so much here that is applicable.
Um, I did a sermon once called, uh, the prodigal son does a 12 steps home.
The prodigal son does a 12 steps like as in 12 steps of alcohol, alcohol, it's anonymous where he came to believe in the Lord and came into its true reality of his depravity.
He was honest with himself and he came, started to come home, started to repent.
But he still had a sense of shame because he's wanted to come back as, right, a slave.
But what did, what did God, what does his father do?
What did he do?
Did he listen?
Okay.
You could come back home if, if you meet these criteria.
Clean up your act.
whatnot.
But no, the father, what does he do?
He runs to him.
while he's still a long way off.
You know, that could be geographically, whatever, but just read into it.
The Father runs to him.
He runs to us while we are still a long way off.
And embraces us.
He embraces the prodigal son.
No mention of his sins.
This is what receiving is like.
Knowing
our true worth as sons and daughters and the Lord, filling that embrace where God casts our sins as far as the east is from the west.
You know, Henry Nowan, the late Henry Nowan wrote a great little book on the prodigal son called the return of the prodigal son, where he does some amazing meditations and self reflections on the Rembrandt's picture
of the return of the prodigal son that is in St. Petersburg, Russia.
It's a wonderful little book that I read it about once a year.
That's part of what I do as far as a habit to remind myself of my sonship as a child of God.
But Henry Nowan says, I go off to that foreign line every time I listen to those voices
that offer me false hope of my value and worth.
As I go off, he goes off to that foreign land like that particle sun, every time we listen to those voices that offer us false hope for value and worth.
And I like to say, we go off to that far off land whenever we seek for value on worth, power, position, performance, possessions and pleasure.
I wander off to that far off land every time I look to another person, place, or thing for my value and worth and significance.
Or even a work salvation, a sense that I can earn God's love very much like the older second son.
So as I tried to internalize this,
We know when we've gone off to that far off land.
We know when we are not secure in God's love and security, when we get criticized.
Okay, right?
You know, if we're not secure in who we are, you know, when we get criticized, we often deny our faults, compartmentalize them or minimize them.
And something we typically do is we get defensive, right?
I do that.
But when I'm secure,
It's only when I'm secure is when I could really face those things.
So let's move on here.
So what are the voices that call to us to go up to that far off land?
The younger son thinking his inheritance would buy him power, position, pleasure, even friends, right?
That money would buy him community.
The older son, power,
position, performance, but what did that get him?
Keeping accounts, comparing resulted in self-righteousness, resentment, jealousy and anger.
So in sum, how do we receive this calling?
I believe it's like transforming our physical health by small daily decisions to know our foundation as adopted sons and daughters of God.
leads to habits of renewing our minds, giving us security, no longer judgmental of ourselves or self-critical having to perform for love, but learning that habit to learn to live in grace as children of God, to walk worthy of the calling of our calling and sons and daughters.
So with that I'd like to wrap up.
This is something like I said that I
I need to do.
Just like physical health, we need to plan for it.
We need to make it a habit by being in the Word.
For me, it's reading Henry Nowan's Return of the Prodigal Son once a year.
So the Apostle Paul encourages us to take off the old, put on the new.
So let us serve like Martha did, not in a vacuum,
being filled from a full heart, having sat at the feet of Jesus like Mary did.
Let us not have the attitude of the older son, self-righteous, or like Saul, who was a zealous Pharisee, empty on the inside.
He became self-righteous, gosh, militant.
But let us try to put on the new self, the spirit-filled self with the attitude of the prodigal son, who received his calling of sonship
as a child of God who once received can do this, can love as he has been loved, can forgive as he has been forgiven.
So let's close in prayer.
God, we just thank you for inspiring the Apostle Paul to write this letter directly to us, God, the Gentile Church here in Sacramento with clear
exhortations and clear encouragement to put off our old selves and to put on our new selves.
God help us to, God help us to know that we cannot do this in the flesh, nor in a vacuum of need, trying to earn love and significance.
God, many of us grew up with conditional love, you know, performing for our work,
Maybe there are some here who can identify with the concept of being lost, lost value, lost direction, lost hope, or a contrite heart.
But God, you call us by name.
You call us, you call me of my value in your economy to give me direction and hope in a future.
God, you call us even while we are a long way off if we simply turn to you.
God, you put a ring on our finger, sandals on our feet and call us back home.
Heavenly Father, I pray that all you are calling today will receive the knowledge of your love that is not conditional.
The grace and your calling of your adoption as your children.
So we may be encouraged
and empower to live a life worthy of that calling.
In your son's name we pray.
Amen.